# Air-Pollution-Monitoring-and-Prediction

The proposed system monitors and predicts the air pollution level using Internet of Things and Machine Learning. The Air Quality Index (AQI) is measured using the MQ 135 Gas sensor and the concentration of various gases like Ozone, Carbon Monoxide, Nitrogen Dioxide, Ammonia and Particulate Matter is measured using the MQ 131 Ozone sensor, MiCS 6814 and PM2.5 Particle sensor respectively. A dataset with 707876 records is cleaned, preprocessed and transformed to be made suitable for the project. This preprocessed dataset is used as the training dataset. The Air Quality Index (AQI), PM2.5, CO, NO2, NH3 and Ozone concentrations measured everyday are passed to the cloud via NodeMCU. These measured values are used as the testing dataset . Finally, the Air Quality Index for the next 5 hours is forecasted using various Machine Learning algorithms and the algorithm with the highest accuracy is detected. This index helps to track future levels of pollution and preventive measures to reduce pollution levels can be devised accordingly. system which monitors and predicts the air quality using Internet of Things and Machine learning is proposed. This project can be used in major cities to monitor the air quality remotely and can in turn help to reduce the air pollution level. The Kaggle contains 707876 records with the attributes : City, Date time, PM2.5, PM10, NO, NO2, NOx, NH3, CO, SO2, O3, Benzene, Toluene, Xylene, AQI and AQI_Bucket. The attribute ‘City’ contains 26 unique values of which the records with value ‘Chennai’ are considered. The total number of records considered for cleaning is 48192. The dataset is cleaned by handling the missing data values and noisy data. The missing values are handled by filling it with the most probable value. This is done by calling the interpolate() function in which the related known values are used to estimate the unknown value. Finally, the data is reduced by attribute subset selection method, in which the highly relevant attributes are used and other attributes are discarded. Date time, PM2.5, NO2, NH3, CO, O3 and AQI are chosen as the highly relevant attributes. Once the dataset is preprocessed, it is used to train the Machine Learning models. The model will be tested using various Machine Learning algorithms and the one with highest accuracy will be used to forecast the Air Quality Index by analyzing the previous air quality data .The dataset is updated daily in order to forecast the air quality index for the next day.

Kaggle dataset :(city_hour.csv) www.kaggle.com/rohanrao/air-quality-data-in-india
